<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Endnotes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter">
		<section id="endnotes" epub:type="endnotes">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Endnotes</h2>
			<ol>
				<li id="note-1" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>For those who believe with me in public school education, the fact stated in the following extract from a note of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> G. De Bunsen, will be hailed with pleasure, especially now that our alliance with Prussia (the most natural and healthy European alliance for Protestant England) is likely to be so much stronger and deeper than heretofore. Speaking of this hook, he says⁠—“The author is mistaken in saying the public schools, in the English sense, are peculiar to England. Schul Pforte (in the Prussian province of Saxony) is similar in antiquity and institutions. I like his book all the more for having been there for five years.” <a href="preface.xhtml#noteref-1" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-2" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>“To him (Arnold) and his admirers we owe the substitution of the word ‘earnest’ for its predecessor ‘serious’ ”⁠ <cite>—<i epub:type="se:name.publication.journal">Edinburgh Review</i>, <abbr>No.</abbr> 217, <abbr>p.</abbr> 183</cite>. <a href="preface.xhtml#noteref-2" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-3" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>“Pagani editiorem locum præoccupaverant. Christiani ab inferiori loco aciem dirigebant. Erat quoque in eodem loco unica spinosa arbor, brevis admodum (quam nos ipsi nostris propriis oculis vidimus). Circa quam ergo hostiles inter se acies cum ingenti clamore hostiliter conveniunt. Quo in loco alter de duobus Paganorum regibus et quinque comites occisi occubuerunt, et multa millia Paganæ partis in eodem loco. Cecidit illic ergo Bœgsceg Rex, et Sidroc ille senex comes, et Sidroc Junior comes, et Obsbern comes,” <abbr>etc.</abbr>⁠ <cite>—<i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Annales Rerum Gestarum Ælfredi Magni, Auctore Asserio. Recensuit Franciscus Wise. Oxford</i>, 1722, <abbr>p.</abbr> 23.</cite> <a href="chapter-1-1.xhtml#noteref-3" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-4" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>A kind and wise critic, an old Rugboean, notes here in the margin: The “small friend system was not so utterly bad from 1841⁠–⁠1847.” Before that, too, there were many noble friendships between big and little boys, but I can’t strike out the passage: many boys will know why it is left in. <a href="chapter-2-2.xhtml#noteref-4" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-5" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>
						<cite>Clough. <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Ambarvalia.</i></cite>
						<a href="chapter-2-8.xhtml#noteref-5" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
